Title: Why we are doing this
Date: 2015-07-01 16:27
Image: /images/blog/peter_and_vera.jpg

First of all, of course, because we enjoy gaming! We see computer games as an
important part of human culture in general, but also of our lifes. This project
is currently mainly driven by Vera and Peter, but we want to grows a
collaborative project the future. We will definitely organize workshops around
building embedded gaming consoles with development boards and open source
software and hope to learn from your participation. We are happy to already
partner with the team of [V-Play](http://v-play.net/) in beautiful Vienna,
who kindly agreed that we use their game engine on our platform. Our idea of
μbrew is to provide a set of building blocks for a customized gaming
environment that everyone can build and use. We want to promote hacking and
making, but also our favorite Open Source and Free Software projects.

### Inspiring embedded gaming projects

This project is not the first in the area of making and gaming, and we will
regularly post about projects that are inspiring us. Here are already two
amazing projects that we regard as important and that we will follow in this
blog over time:

* [Pandora](http://openpandora.org/): The Pandora (project name: OpenPandora)
is definitely the most advanced and the biggest community project to build a
gaming console. After years of hard work the OpenPandora was released in 2010.
Most users probably play it with emulators of older systems, but there are also
a lot of open and non-open games available for the platform itself. The Pandora
runs a version Ångström Linux and uses its own PND system for package
management. We hope to be able to use the package management for μbrew in the
future, too. To learn more about their hardware and software [please visit the
OpenPandora wiki](http://pandorawiki.org/Main_Page). The Pandora team is
currently working on the successor of the OpenPandora, which is called
[Pyra](http://www.pyra-handheld.com/). Time to join the community!

* [Arduboy](http://www.arduboy.com/): Arduboy is somehow the culmination of
work around embedded gaming on the Arduino. The project of Kevin Bates finished
a successful Kickstarter campaign recently and will ship the Arduboy this fall.
Of course, we supported the campaign and can't wait to get the boy into our
hands :-) The nice look and shiny design of the Arduboy was definitely one of
the reasons for our support. The Kickstarter page lists some projects that
pioneered games on the Arduino and that provide great material to start with
programming graphics and sound on a low-end platform. A crazy project somehow,
that we hope to see around and growing for a longer time.
